# Code and data for research project "When players dislike but keep playing: Net Promoter Score inversion as a marker for problematic digital use"

This repository contains the code used to extract, process, and analyze the dataset for the study "When players dislike but keep playing: Net Promoter Score inversion as a marker for problematic digital use".

On March 25, 2019, the project's industry partner provided one export of player telemetry (so, clickstream logs / user behavior data) around a first Net Promoter Score (NPS) survey that the company had run from March 4 to 6, 2019. The researcher(s) then asked to obtain a similar dataset for a second NPS survey that the company ran about a month after the first survey from April 8 to 10, 2019. The industry partner shared the SQL (structured query language to access the company's database) code used to export these datasets. This code is shown in the following files:

First export: query_until_2019-03-25_blinded_annotated.sql (this file is annotated to explain what the exported data columns report)
Second export: query_after_2019-03-25_blinded.sql (this file is not annotated as it exports the same data as under 1) for a different time period)
As the industry partner requested to remain anonymous, both files are blinded with "XXX" where company and game name were shown in the code to access the correct databases.

The resulting datasets were provided as CSV files that the researcher(s) imported to R where they were further processed to create well-behaved datasets for analysis. The R code for this processing is shown in file data_processing_code_2025-08-30.R. User identifiers were hashed upon export by the industry partner. They are further replaced and dropped from the data as one of the first steps of the data processing. There hence is no way whatsoever to map or trace any data to keys that could identify real persons. The data is further purely observational, without any intervention, interaction, or experimentation with users on the researchers' part.

The analysis centered on the well-behaved cross-sectional dataset generated during the data processing and preparation. The code used to analyze the data and produce the results, tables, and figures shown in the manuscript is given in file analysis_code_2025-08-30.R in this repository.

At the request of the industry partner, the researcher(s) is/are not at liberty to share user-level data publicly. A dataset that can be shared publicly was hence generated by aggregating the relevant user-level data as mean and standard deviation across the following categories: country group (United States, all other countries), platform (Apple, Google), and NPS rating category (9-10: promoter; 7-8: passive; 3-6: detractor; 0-2: severe detractor). The smallest resulting segment comprises 196 users, ensuring that no user-level data are contained in this dataset. This dataset is available in this repository as file nps_lootboxes_data_public.csv. Should you seek access to user-level data for replication purposes, please reach out to the corresponding author at julian.runge [at] northwestern [dot] edu.
